We had a bookstore and theater together to go back to about 1967 or 8, I guess.
And where was that?
It was in La Jolla, and it was an art film theater.
Repertory Film Theater and a bookstore.
And out of, really, my husband's collecting books and our realization that the old illustrated books were essentially out of everybody's knowledge.
I mean, they were out of print and rare and not being reprinted or anything.
And some of the great illustrators of the past, Rackham and so forth, were just
basically unknown to all except a few antiquarians.
We started the Green Tiger Press, which originally started with reproducing old illustrations out of our collection.
Collection of what, specifically?
Of illustrated books.
Illustrated books.
And then it went from there.
The first book we published was a book by my husband about children's illustrations.
or illustrations in children's books, and called All Mirrors or Magic Mirrors.
And then we printed, we did reprints all the way through the Green Tigress history, and then we started doing modern illustrators with modern stories.
Let me just shift this off for a second.
How's your husband's name?
Harold.
And you're both Californians?
Well, no, I'm from Cincinnati.
And he was born in New London, but his father was in the Navy.
New London, Connecticut.
Yeah, but his father was in the Navy, and so he traveled so much as he traveled.
He doesn't really consider himself almost from anywhere.
But then his father retired to San Diego, which is how he got there.
A lot of Navy people do.
That's right.
He liked the climate, and he liked the town at the time.
It's gotten a little changed a little bit since then.
And I was out there visiting and met him and stayed about 25 years ago.
And so anyway, the Green Tiger Press was really born out of my interest in training as a painter.
I come from a family of a lot of painters.
I counted the other day, I think I've got nine relatives from my grandfather's generation down who worked.
professional in the art field, all the way down to my sister, who's a successful artist in Canada.
When we're done with this last week, I collect a lot of illustrated things, too.
I'd love to talk to you about a few of the things that I collect, but not right now.
You say you started collecting, I gather, with
Yeah, Harold is really the collector.
Harold is more of a utilitarian stretch.
Right, that's been my approach.
Some of us, of course, rubbed off on me after all this time.
I mean, it rubbed off on our children, too.
Our house is out of hand.
So I collect to some extent for the sake of having a collection.
But as I say, my collections tend to be around things of interest.
He has really done the major part of the collecting that was the Green Tigers and is now ours.
And I think it's quite a major children's book collection.
There are some, we say children's and illustrated because we do have books which aren't really for children.
I mean, Doré and people, you know, something like that.
But certainly the emphasis is children.
That's very interesting.
Children's books were never collected.
by serious collectors.
That's right.
They weren't.
You go to the Bodleian at Oxford, for instance, and that's why they're so thrilled to get the Opie collection, because they never did books, I mean children's books.
Right.
They were never considered serious enough.
That's right.
Or the Osborne collection up in Toronto.
That's right, and there are major collections like that, and of course, Library of Congress has a good collection.
AAS here in Worcester has an exception.
Do they?
Markets, of course, in contendence number one.
Uh-huh.
Uh, we should be, we should... Yeah, we, we... But we had books that... You'll have to give me a card before we go on.
Maybe I'll even measure something.
Oh, good.
Oh, I'd like to, uh... Make sure you know who I am at some point.
Um, but, uh, we, my, we were in London last year.
We were there for a month last fall, and he was doing research in the, um,
British Library, and we have books they don't have.
You as individuals?
Yeah.
I mean, they have books we don't have, too.
Well, they have the British Library.
Right.
And they've been at it since it's 1755.
That's right.
And I think that Harold found that he had some books the Library of Congress didn't have.
One of the things that he's always specialized in, one of the things about children's books is that they are
of their nature.
I mean, not counting the coffee table books like Dulac and Rackham.
Everybody knows about that.
They are ephemeral.
Is that what you were going to say?
Yeah, they are ephemeral.
No, that's fine.
Also, they tend to be... There's a much larger proportion... Well, I don't know.
I probably don't know other fields as well, but there tend to be all kinds of books, one book by a person.
Somebody did it for their children, right?
And I don't know how they got it printed, but you never heard of this person.
A great example is Alice in Wonderland.
Well, yeah, that's true.
How many episodes did he do other than through the looking glass?
Well, that's true.
But there are things by Mrs. George Banbury, you know, did this thing for her child who was sick or an adult illustrator.
a newspaper illustrator or a magazine illustrator or something, they do one book.
So they unique appearances.
Right.
And they don't appear in bibliographies because they're, who knows about it?
Are they important, though?
Well, we've specialized in those odd little things, painting books, how-to-do-it books, little odd things that really were kind of ephemeral in their time.
The Chicago Tribune, who's the Chicago Tribune?
Bradley, the name of Bradley, did one book called Our Indians.
He did it for his children.
Ben Allen from Chicago, not the guy from Chicago.
No, what's his first name?
I've got a wrong name.
Anyway, he did one book called Our Indians.
Our Indians.
Our Indians, yeah.
And that's it.
That's all he ever did.
It wasn't his profession.
But he did a nice book.
Beautiful.
Absolutely beautiful.
Who published now?
Is this a self-published deal?
No, it wasn't self-published.
It was professionally done.
We found out about it because the granddaughter, no, the niece.
I want to put this close to you just because I know this television is competing with you if it's close to you or it's not.
Bradley's niece.
was in a retirement home in La Jolla.
And somehow or other, somebody told her about us or us about her or something.
We went to see her, and she had the original sketchbook of the thing.
We actually had the book, as a matter of fact.
And she had the original sketchbook, and we actually reproduced the whole thing in small in a book we did at the Green Tiger called Image and Maker.
which we intended to have it be an ongoing thing, but we never got around to doing the second one.
We sold the Green Tiger in 86, and it was kind of a labor of love.
I mean, it was a beautiful book.
It had 26-pit plates and things like that.
It was, again, about illustration.
Yeah.
Are any of these in print?
You'd have trouble finding that one.
It's not in France.
Green Tire might have one knocking around, but I doubt it.
Image and Maker.
It's a beautiful book.
It's about this big.
Maybe it's more than 27.
I can't remember.
It's a tall.
You guys didn't do things like what I call manufactured rarity.
I mean, these things weren't.
Did you have a limitation on them on the outset?
No, no, no.
We never did limited dishes.
I deplore that.
No.
Because the whole concept of being a writer or an author is to put things in the marketplace.
Well, yeah.
I mean, I guess that there are.
I mean, I can't really quarrel with the people who go make these handmade books out of, you know, three colors of paper and die cut and punch the pages and all that stuff.
That's a whole different thing.
It's a limited edition process.
are not really making... I mean, they're making something else, and I guess they're a perfect right to do that.
We were never... We always considered ourselves trade publishers, though.
And... I love that, yeah.
We did very well with it.
Frankly, we never had... We never had books that didn't make us money back.
That's wonderful.
We... It took us a while.
You marketed yourself?
You did it yourself?
There's a lot of reason we gave up on the whole thing.
It got so monstrous, you know, distributing and everything that...
We got sick of it.
We were spending all our time on the marketing end and getting nothing and not having any, marketing and financing, not having any time for the creative part that we really liked.
So, but, I mean, some additions like this had all this hand tipping, which we did ourselves.
We hand tipped cards.
We had a large hand manufacturing establishment there.
And originally we hand tipped the cards because the books were that way.
do this the way they were supposed to be done.
So we had note cards that were just gone.
Did to the end of the Green Tiger.
And so we hit books.
I mean, Image and Maker, I think we only printed 2,500 of it.
But it was going to be ongoing.
It had articles by various four or five people.
It was edited by my husband and a friend of ours who's a professor of English at San Diego State, Peter Newmeyer, who's a writer and a professor.
specializing in children's illustrations.
Anyway, they edited, and they were going to go on and do more, but I don't know.
It never happened in May again, though, because it was a wonderful project.
Anyway, we'd only printed, say, 2,500 of that one, whereas we'd print 10,000 of something else, and we had our own press.
So we could— These were all hand-pressed things, isn't it?
They weren't hand-pressed.
It was a two-color Heidelberg.
We did the whole thing.
I mean, partly because, frankly, we were stuck out there in San Diego.
You did 10,000 books of a run, of a book.
Sure, Heidelberg can do 10,000 impressions an hour.
I mean, you get it rolling.
How do you spell that?
Heidelberg.
Oh, Heidelberg.
Heidelberg, a Heidelberg press.
And I was a press foreman.
Heidelberg, just like the town, yeah.
H-E-I-D-E-L-B-E-R-G, right?
Yeah, I think you got it right there.
But we did the whole thing.
I mean, we did the books from, we didn't do our color separation, and we didn't do our own binding.
So we did some hand binding of certain kinds.
But other than that, we did pre-press, we did photography, we did the design, layout, paste-up.
How many years did you do this?
Eleven, I guess?
No, it was about fifteen.
I started about seventy, and we sold it in eighty-six.
Seventy to eighty-six.
And how did you get the name Green Tiger?
Well, he's a merry-go-round tiger.
We always thought of him as a merry-go-round tiger.
Okay.
Yeah, so he's fanciful, and so he could be green as well as anything else.
But he's your creation, your combined creation.
Yeah, yeah.
What do you mean?
You mean the logo itself or the idea?
Or the idea?
Yeah, it also a little bit comes from the fact that my husband's a lifelong tiger fan.
These important things.
You know, these things, you know, they all go.
And besides, we like the color because it gives you lots of opportunities for design and recognition.
And we like the idea of a carousel animal.
And then the tiger seemed like a good one.
Did you draw the cauliflower?
Oh, yeah.
Well, he was drawn many times.
There were many different ones.
We used one by a tiger at one point that was, well, it was a variation of one that had been created by Richard from the illustrator.
But there were many.
It seems to me to tell him something important.
Well, I don't know.
We did it as far as the collecting.
We just did a book, well, it's been two or three years now, I guess, for Abbeville called Clapperjack.
And it's really the, I mean, as a matter of fact, Harold wrote it.
The author on the title is Alec Caramillo.
And it's his collection.
He lives in Fontana.
What's his name?
J-A-R-A-M-I-L-L-O.
And what kind of a collection is it?
It's a crackerjack toy.
I remember that book.
Right.
It's crackerjack toys.
Well, that's really our book.
We went and found him.
We went and photographed the collection, and he read things into the tape, and then held
really wrote the thing, but it's his ideas, you know.
But anyway, that's, it's his collection.
It was hell photographing in Fontana, I can tell you.
Did you deal with Bob Abrams in that?
I hate to be Bob for my book.
No, our editor was, um, I'm not good on names this morning, uh, Walton Rawls.
He's, because it's a nine by nine, the nine by nine are his series.
And we did a second one from them, which is also a collection of ours, held it under his own name, called Bon Voyage, which is about the ephemera of travel.
It's a lovely book, I don't know.
Yeah, it is a nice book.
It has done very well.
I could edit it a little, I'll admit that, but...
It was a good-sized book, as I recollect.
Well, it's one of the nine-by-nines.
We wanted it—the idea for—we were originally going to do it at the Green Tiger.
Then we sold it, and the owner didn't want to do it.
What we wanted to do was have luggage labels with it.
So when you've got your book, you've got a bunch of luggage labels.
But they said they were, but they backed out, and then went through.
a little label on there, a little tag.
So we're going to do it ourselves.
We're going to publish, and in fact, we're going to start publishing again, and we're going to start with two things.
One is the box, the luggage labels, and a booklet about travel that should have been with the original book.
What's the name of the new press?
I think it's from the Dreamers.
Yes.
And the other thing we're going to do is
a group of envelopes, marvelous envelopes by a man, a friend of ours, and a marvelous artist, graphic artist.
They're decorated envelopes.
He's been doing this for years.
He sends these things to everybody.
He sends mailings, and they're wonderful.
He also sends crazy things to the mail.
He's a teacher at the University of Washington, Seattle, and it got to be a game with his students.
They would send
candy bars and records and motors and and um cutouts and all kinds of things see what they could get through the mail and that you can get almost anything through the mail i mean he doesn't send anything dangerous with knives or anything like that but he gets you can get almost anything through the mail it's like he told us a funny story about one um that he sent to his agent and he put a magnet on the back so she could put it on her refrigerator
And when he dropped it in, he heard it go thunk.
He thought, that will never get there.
But it did.
He scraped it off the inside of him, apparently, and passed it along.
It was very advantageous to have gone from book selling into publishing.
It really gave us a world, both because of our temperament and because we were out there on the West Coast away from the publishing world,
We're really self-taught for ourselves by our bootstraps.
I mean, we did everything for ourselves.
Nothing invented the wheel all over again in many ways.
And I'm very glad of it.
As I say, one thing coming from the book business, in the book store business, which isn't exactly that, but gives you a very valuable insight into the bookseller's problems and into what it's like out there and what customers are like.
Unlike what salesmen are like, what customers are really like.
That's very valuable.
And I wouldn't trade for anything, all the production experience I had.
I mean, I was a press foreman.
I'm...
beginning to forget it but i could tell you you know okay you better turn up the third roller there and it looks like you're getting a little so-and-so and more water on the sessions because i had to we didn't have enough money to hire a production manager get in there and learn it you know about 80 hours a week well yeah
You know, push comes to shove, I can strip a colored job.
That's a great line.
If you keep your press, does that go up behind the window?
Don't quote me on that.
That sounds too silly.
What sounds too silly?
Push comes to shove, I can strip a colored job.
That's wonderful.
Well, I know, but... Do you want me not to... I love the quote.
I'd rather you didn't, because it's really an idle boast in a way.
It's a very technical job.
You know, if I got stuck late at night, I could go fix something, but, you know, I'm not really a color stripper, so I shouldn't say that.
Which comes to shove, you said.
I could strip a piece of color, maybe.
Okay.
You said it's a big head.
Anyway.
With a small point.
Anyhow.
But I think all that experience was absolutely invaluable, and having our own camera down there and understanding the problems with stripping and photography and so forth,
It teaches you what you can ask for.
It teaches you what you can get.
It teaches you how you can get it.
I mean, technology is getting a little ahead of me sometimes.
I'm a little behind nowadays, but I haven't done it for a while.
This is a great story.
Let's get over to this now a little bit.
But anyway, it isn't altogether irrelevant to this because... It's not irrelevant.
It's not irrelevant to it because... We're talking about the Carl books.
The Carl books.
In fact, all the illustrated books do...
come out of a love of the tradition of children's books and the long collecting of it.
I think the... That's a wonderful quote.
Thank you.
I already see it in type.
Okay.
You should be careful with your journal.
You open your mouth and something comes out and you see a friend that looks so stupid.
But I warn people.
I get so excited.
Anyway.
All the books come out of... They come out of a long, yeah.
A long tradition.
A tradition of, yeah, a love of the old books and the studying of them and collecting of them.
So, really, my... Can I interrupt?
Yeah, sure.
Are these throwbacks?
Conceptually?
I don't know.
I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Are they reactionary?
No, no, no, no.
Throwbacks to an earlier era.
They evolved...
Maybe they do.
I don't do it on purpose.
People have said that... Somebody said about something that the book looked like it was set in the 40s, which...
I certainly didn't intend.
I don't know if it does or not.
I try to get things to be sort of universal.
I certainly don't want to be having illustrations that children can't feel are them, so I don't want them to seem antiquated.
I suppose, to some extent, all illustrators tend to illustrate their own childhood.
but um because it's what childhood is see you know it's hard to escape from that and um but i certainly don't i certainly am not consciously reactionary uh you did say and i interrupted but that's because i wanted to ask that question then but you were saying that all the books
came out or grew out of a long tradition of the old books.
Yes, studying them and thinking about them and looking at them.
As I said, I've never intended to indicate or be reactionary, but as some people are, as some people are, I mean, Kate Greenaway was.
She said, you know, her children are
75 years, dressed 75 years earlier than her own period.
She was deliberately reactionary.
And there are people like that.
I'm not attempting to be that.
I'm attempting to be just sort of anytime.
but certainly current enough to seem accessible to children and to people nowadays.
I mean, I'm not trying to be nostalgic, put it that way.
Certain things that I like, I mean, if I've got a choice, I'll picture an old telephone booth and not a new one, just because I've had enough.
Do you like some juice or something?
I would like some juice.
What kind of fruit juice do you have?
I'll pick things that I like the look of better.
I'll pick things that I like the look of an older thing.
I'll pick them, but I try not to get it...
out of experience.
I'm not going to pick up a post box from the 19th century to show that, but if I've got a choice between a better looking old thing and a worse looking new thing, I'll certainly take the old thing, but it's really on the grounds of looks and not on the grounds of trying to be reactionary.
As a matter of fact, usually things are getting, things tend to be getting worse.
You see, the only reason I ask that question is,
The question was basically a response to what you were saying.
And again, we'll get back to Carl, how Carl grew out of the collecting and the... It did.
Well, Carl very specifically did, because the idea from Carl came from a Münchner Bilderbogen.
Came from what, I'm sorry?
A Münchner Bilderbogen, which is... Can you spell it for Annette?
Yeah, M-U with an umlaut, M-G-H.
Yep.
M-U-N-C-H.
M-U-
Sheets.
Picture, sheet, paper, yeah.
Well, that's a phrase.
And they, Munich had them, Berlin had them.
From what period?
End of the 19th century.
Started about 1840 or 50.
But they had them in London, too.
And they were called... Were they colored?
Well, we called broadsheets.
They were one color, one penny, one penny flame, tuppence colored.
And their colors were usually hand colored.
either really by hand or by some kind of pochoir process.
How do you spell that?
That's French.
I'm not sure.
P-O-U-C-H-O-I-R.
Yeah, that's how you spell it.
P-O-C-H.
No, P-O-U-C-H.
I've got to do it on paper.
That's okay.
I can't.
It's simple, is what it is.
And they use them for fashion.
Let's go back to Munchen Building.
The Munchen Building.
It went on, I think there are about somewhere up in the neighborhood of 1,500 or 1,600 of them.
And they went on for about 50 years.
And they were into the UO sheets?
Yeah, they're big sheets, like this.
They sold them on the street.
And we sold them, as I say, they were cheaper, plain, and they were colored, and they were expensive.
Everybody.
Everybody bought them.
And they tried anything.
They tried political satire.
costumes of the world, historical kind of educational things.
Is it a very Currier and Ives type of thing, though?
No.
Well, they varied.
They were more often many pictures, almost like a comic strip.
But comic strips is a little misleading.
Some of them were very much comic strips.
And the one, in fact, Paul came from was.
But sometimes there were one big picture, sometimes there were two.
Sometimes it was inspirational, sometimes it was historical, sometimes there were fairy tales.
There was a beautiful one called the Mauschenzug, a procession of fairy tales.
Well, zug means train, you know.
It was a whole procession of fairy tales, creatures from Grimm.
Beautiful thing.
That was a Bilderbogen.
You collect Bilderbogen?
Yeah, we do, we do.
And actually, we saw in Munich a big collection of them that we didn't want.
In Munich?
I'm sorry, in Zurich, a big collection of these that we didn't want to buy because they were very expensive, and we had some, and it was well-bound, and we didn't.
How expensive was your collection?
I don't know.
My husband is the one to ask about these things.
I don't probably 50.
Are they expensive?
Who collects them primarily, Europeans or Americans, would you say?
Probably Europeans, but all that kind of thing is pretty international.
So tell me how Carl knew this.
Well, we saw this, and it was a kind of little sort of cartoony.
At the time, I didn't know any German.
And so we couldn't read it, but it was obvious.
It was this little dog who gets left with the baby.
And the baby falls out of the cradle.
And so he cries, and so the dog brings him toys.
And then he... Oh, that's wonderful.
That's a great little cow.
That's right.
And then the baby goes to the window, and the dog grabs him back.
And then somehow he manages to get him back in the cradle, and the baby gets back in himself, I think.
And then the mother comes and it's all back to normal.
When did this happen?
Somebody asked me that before.
I have to figure backwards.
How can I in 85?
I must have been working on it since the spring of 84.
No, it's early.
It doesn't have to be anymore.
Probably we were at least into Bologna.
We're stopping at Zurich on our way home.
Did it hit you immediately?
Well, my husband said, you know, that would make a really good children's book, that general idea.
And in fact, Carl, we didn't buy, as I say, buy the street collection.
In fact, Carl is my missed memory of what the dog's name was.
Good Dog Carl is really an attempt simply to call it by the Bilderbogen name.
Because it was called Braav Karo.
That's spelled for me, okay.
Braav, B-R-A-V-E, which in German means... See, was it a cow with a C or a K, though?
Well, it was spelled K-A-R-O, as a matter of fact.
But I misremembered how I got from Karo to Carl, fell with a C, which isn't even German, I don't know.
I mean, it's Swedish, actually.
Anyway.
Anyway, but it, brav in that sense, you use it like bravo, and you use it for children.
Children or dogs to mean good work, well done.
You say it to a child who's done well in school, you say it to a dog, it means good dog.
We've got a big black lab.
Right.
You know, he brings you the stick, and you say, she brings you the stick, you know, and you say brav, brav, whatever.
That's right.
Exactly that's how you use it.
So, The Good Dog, Carl, was simply a translation of, apparently, simply translated the name of this very book.
That's a good story.
Have you told this story?
Oh, yeah.
It has been printed around.
Oh, yeah, it has.
They keep repeating it.
Everybody likes that story.
Well, I'm going to use it anyway.
Anyway, it's... It would be wonderful if it hadn't been, but that's okay.
And, as a matter of fact, it turned out later that we had the...
that particular builder was in our collection yeah but anyway but so so really carl was my husband's idea um and uh in fact you know he doesn't uh he doesn't get credit for them but a number of them are really here this scholastic book the frank and ernest i don't know if you know those those are his stories yeah it's really what his ideas in the first place he came across a uh he came across um
He was reading a book on, I don't know what he was reading a book on, somehow he came across this half-house Greek, you know, the language of the diners, and he said, you know, this is really terrific, and he started reading at some of these things, and we thought, gee, the children would love this, because children loved to play with language, they loved it.
especially when they're learning language, the idea that it can go wrong, they find really funny.
So we thought that would be a great idea, and I think it did turn into an excellent book.
So he really wrote the three, well, there's a third now coming, and I'm working on it.
But he really wrote those two.
And we just didn't, he didn't want his name on, so we'll just leave him Alexander Day as simpler.
But Alexander Day, in some senses, is a kind of a combination name.
because he has certainly contributed a lot to uh many of them you can see he contributed the idea for carl now and he also having who knows i mean when when you work together for this many years you know somebody says something and somebody else says something and by the time you're through i mean who's the creator who knows i look a lot of the visual jokes and things are things i sort of make up as i go along in the carl books but
He's certainly a very heavily participant in really all the books.
I think Nate is the real winner.
How about the idea of zero text?
Oh, that wasn't cute.
It's simply dogs and babies don't talk.
Who's going to say anything?
There's no speakers.
But there's such a thing as an omniscient narrative, too.
Yeah.
It just didn't seem to fit somehow, but that was the reason.
It didn't tell.
It never occurred to you that you could introduce... Oh, of course it occurred to us.
It just didn't seem... You know, the hovering presence that... Yeah, but, yeah, and in fact, of course, the one, the Munich one is a narrative.
It does tell.
I don't know what it says, because I've never actually gone and tried to read it.
But it's...
Yeah, it could, but there didn't seem to be any need for it.
And because it was kind of a challenge, I mean, I was an illustrator, so why not tell it in pictures?
And you didn't have any... Did you have any idea that it was funny?
Don't.
I mean, we thought it was a good idea.
We enjoyed it.
That's all you ever know when you spread.
How long have you been doing children's books?
Well, the first one I did was Teddy Bear's Picnic, which was... That's a wonderful book.
I know.
I love them and I love them.
My wife is going to review them with me this year.
Pardon me for getting into this.
No, that was the first one I did.
That was where?
About?
83, I think.
Boy, you're just kind of an instrument to this, right?
Yeah, well, I was, I always, from a child, as I say, wanted to be a painter, I came from a very artistic family.
I mean, what one did on their vacation was get out the wear colors, and, you know, you'd see uncles just scattered around the painting, that kind of thing.
So, I was pretty clear about it.
I always wanted to do that.
I went to Swarthmore, which doesn't have an art, because I didn't have an art department, an art appreciation, but doesn't have any practical things.
And so I really have not had very much training.
Right.
So I have had very little form of training.
Um, I took, I think, one or two courses at the art students, like, after Talia, and that's just, yeah, aside from what I was taught at home and what I saw, I'm really quite self-taught.
But, uh, anyway, the, uh,
So I always wanted to be a painter, and I do paint on my own.
I mean, I have a fair number of paintings that are not illustrations, but I certainly wasn't doing much of it in the years when we were running the Green Tiger in the bookstore and the theater and the whole works, and I had young children and all that.
But I was doing designing for that, because I also had to run the design department of the Green Tiger.
And I did something for the Green Tiger.
I mean, we'd get stuck, you know, we didn't have enough pictures for a calendar, and we had to whip in an April teddy bear or something, you know, I'd have to, I'd do that.
But I wasn't doing a lot of illustrating and so forth in that period, but then when,
we decided we would do the teddy bear thickening i thought it might be kind of fun we had my son and a friend of ours has a wonderful those have wonderful collections of old teddy bears so it was kind of obvious we have all the great models for the for i mean it's actually the old and the uh the malls we're seeing there so
I thought, well, I'm trying to illustrate a book.
I mean, I've been publishing everybody else's illustrations for all this time, you know, over 10 years or something.
I don't know, doing myself and myself.
But I did that one and then, well done.
three more for the Green Tiger before we sold them.
The Green Tiger did that.
Yes, yes.
In fact, that's one of the reasons why Alexander Day, the name, came into existence because it had so many advantages to have a moment of doom in a situation where I was running the press.
I was my own agent and all that kind of thing.
It was a deep dark secret for a long time.
I think I had it maybe, well, I don't know how long really, I think, but until after we sold the Green Tiger anyway.
And how did those early books do far enough?
They did very well.
I mean, I don't know how many it sold out, but it's well over 40 years.
I would think.
The green tiger did very well.
Even though our distribution was weak and kind of handmade and so forth.
You see, one of the things we did is we kept listening.
We kept with things.
In fact, people would complain.
They couldn't tell our back list from our front list.
And that meant... David does the same thing.
Yeah, that's right.
And it meant that Brooks kept going because they were out there.
But maybe it's not quite that high.
I'm sure it's 200,000 there by now.
But it did very well.
And it held its record in the back, and it did Carl.
You know, Ron ordered and ordered Bologna.
It did very well.
So how did you, now you took Carl to, did you act as your own agent on this?
On Carl?
Yeah.
Well, the first Carl, you mean the second, were they Carl ones?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But when we left the Green Tiger, we had, we filmed the Blue Lantern Studio.
which was going to be a book packaging thing and also to do a book packaging you know business and also it was going to do it helped we had a contract with the new owner of the green tiger for a while uh for two years in fact a longer contract but uh
to do the design and other development and things for him because he didn't, he didn't have anybody to do that at all.
And by the reason he's got it, he wanted to keep us and we didn't want to work for him.
So we had this packaging agreement with him to get, to show him books and he would pick some out and then, and then take them and then publish them for the green carter.
And then once he didn't want, we would take us well, which we did.
But the reason, I mean, obviously he would have wanted Carl, but we had a big,
We had a big argument with him about royalties, and he didn't afford to pay him, and so we said, well, you don't have to carry more textbooks again until you do it.
So we eventually broke with him, and so we have no more connection, no more legal connection with the Green Tiger at all.
But in the course of that, then we decided to take the call, to take another call to somebody else.
We knew them before, when we owned the Green Tiger.
I went to them not because they wanted.
I went to Viking and Scholastic.
I only went to four people, Random House, Viking, Scholastic.
On HBJ, I think they do wonderful things.
Well, they do.
They're right in our city, but I don't know the...
I've never felt much, yeah they are, I don't know, I've never felt much personal, kind of, I don't know, sympathy or something with the... I think the product they do is lovely, lightened in the night.
More of those beautiful products.
Well, I just took it to those because I knew they were interesting.
And I, and...
They didn't, and so the three, Viking, Scorsic, and Floss, all wanted it, and I decided to go to Farrar because, just because I like them.
I do like Scholastic, by the way, very much.
I'll take a good work with Scholastic.
I like Viking too, because Viking is awfully big.
Things get lost in Viking.
I have three, four books of Viking.
They just disappear.
You have one season and you're done.
That's the trouble with Vikings.
I like the editor there.
They've always been very good.
They've been generous.
They've been, I have to say, their production is very good.
I have no complaints about them, except that they're so big.
The things just disappear so fast.
Well, for instance, it's your book, so I... But, you know, I really don't want to say anything against them, but it's not their fault.
I'm not going to use this.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, you really shouldn't, because it's just kind of... I only use about two or three slides, which I love, but I don't use two or three percent of what I get off the tape anyway, but one thing I like about...
F.S.G., your book, for instance, is they pitching off the boat?
I mean, they're not just pitching one book.
They're doing... They are, they may, but of course, to do, you know, if one of the other publishers had it, they would do, you know, if they sent, as they say in the movie industry, it's got legs.
then that's when they put their budget into it right that's when they put the money and all that stuff into it so those publishers it would have stood out you know in their list too if it had shown you know did they instantly like the idea of a book that was totally devoid of text i believe that
I would have had real cover size if it hadn't happened.
Remember, the first book has already had enormous selfies.
The first book already had sold top 1,000.
It does not.
I think that if I had gone in cold, I don't think I could have gotten anybody's picture.
You came in with a track record, isn't that right?
That's right.
And that speaks very eloquently for itself then.
But nothing better then, because it was woodless.
And also, to be honest with you, I don't know if they would have thought of it at the time, but probably, because they're so conscious of this kind of thing.
This business of the mother leaving the baby with the dog.
A question about the perfect answer to that, which always seems so silly when I tell them to laugh, but some people take it seriously.
The answer is, of course, if you've got a dog who's as confident as power and a baby who's that good a rider, go ahead.
Well, we had one.
We had two dogs.
We had a Rottweiler and an Irish carrier.
I mean, I don't think a baby could lie on another scale.
And actually, their reputation is such that if you could really lie on another scale.
Well, and that, of course, is another thing, too, is that they're big, fierce dogs.
I mean, they're fierce in a sense.
They're very protective.
They're very loyal.
They're very nervous dogs.
And they're very, very...
Well, wary.
They're suspicious dogs.
And this is probably what makes them good watch dogs.
But they're really big.
They're powerful dogs.
I mean, the dog that's been here totally young.
When he was peeing, he chewed up a metal bucket.
Literally.
Those dogs could do an enormous amount of damage.
That dog is like that when she was born.
Yeah, but I mean, my point is that they really are powerful dogs, and they're very protective, and you get frightened, and you know, one of the things that you have to be a little careful about, if you've got a rat bar with children, is that your child doesn't get into a fight with another child.
because the dog will go to the rescue of his master, and that's going to cause a little trouble.
That's not funny.
No, that's right.
Because the child is, you know, when a child is in a serious fight,
They sound like they're serious.
Well, if it sounds serious, maybe it's good to have them talk with me.
Well, not with another 10-year-old, you know.
A 10-year-old, I'm sure.
There was a wonderful piece in the New York Times a couple months ago about writing, how they've really taken off as a place in a big city.
Yeah, I get it.
Right.
Yeah, and it's kind of, the Rathard people are dismayed about this because they feel there's a lot of, we have scripted reading, and they feel that people are irresponsible owners, which they are.
And runners can go wrong because they're extremely sensitive dogs.
They're easy to train because they want to please.
But if you get them wanting to please the wrong person, you get real danger.
You get them wanting to please somebody who's aggressive, sadistic, or whatnot,
And you've got a very dangerous situation.
Or you get people who neglect them.
And then they get very sad and hurt and resentful.
You know, there were several months, but I don't know.
There had to be various owners.
And the guy's walking inside the park.
I forget what his name was.
Billy or Kenny or something like that.
A nice guy's name.
The thing is, he likes to rest a lot.
When he wants to rest, he does.
I mean, you know, he does precisely what he wants to do.
He weighs about 200 pounds, or whatever he weighs.
Not quite that much, I know, but he's out there.
There was a woman on Long Island, a group old, I don't know if I remember her name, and she's all of a sudden boomtown.
Oh, I know.
Yeah, that's right, it is.
And people say, is it because it was tall of anything to do with it?
Who knows?
Maybe, I don't know.
Has it changed your life at all?
I mean, it's become a lot of different.
No, it doesn't make an awful lot of difference.
Well, yeah, but, you know, my life has always told so many things.
I mean, it's just publishing.
It's just something we've always been in.
It surprises you, though.
I knew that it would be, I mean, I always felt that it would be popular.
But the size of it, I mean, it's pleasantly surprising, but I've been in the business too long to know that you can't predict.
I mean, it's like the film industry or anything else, what lightning is going to strike?
In retrospect, people say, why?
In retrospect, you can say a few things that maybe explain it.
But would I have picked it out to be a runaway bustle?
No, to be honest.
Would you target an audience?
No, we never do.
We never do.
I don't know who I'm doing.
Frankly, there are a lot of adult jokes in there.
I do it to please myself, yeah.
But there's some of them that are really over children's heads.
I mean, particularly in the new one, I mean, the business about the paintings.
The different styles of paintings that the artists are doing.
I mean, that's kind of children's joke.
They don't recognize Chagall or Mondrian or anything like that.
That's an adult joke.
I really do them to amuse myself as I go along.
And also in the sketch club, I don't know if anybody will ever notice, but it's called the Allegro Sketch Club.
And the reason for that was because I was sitting there, and I got to thinking about it, and I don't know, somebody said something.
I realized that these people were going to have to be mighty speedy to have gotten this far with this baby and dog together.
I figured they'd better be a Leggo.
But just little things like that, you know.
Do you get feedback?
Do you find that adults enjoy the books as much as children?
Do you think that they're buying them for themselves?
They admit it a lot of times.
A lot of the letters I get are from... Well, I get letters from children sometimes.
A lot of letters are... I do get letters from children, but the letters I get from adults are
Two things, either they're right by the people, right by the people who say, oh, this is a wonderful representation of our wonderful breed, thank you very much, that kind of thing.
Or they're people with children and dogs.
And they don't necessarily have to be a right by her.
I mean, it can be, this car is exactly like my golden lover, Sheila, you know, and I have a 10-month-old baby and so forth.
Or people read it.
to their children.
They claim that they read it to them at an incredibly young age.
It's only six months old babies and things they read it to.
So you say read it, but what's wonderful is that you reply to the text.
That's right.
They show me.
That it is an interactive book in that respect, isn't it?
That's right.
I mean, I've had people say that they put the name of their dog into the book and they say, okay, now Sheila does this and Sheila does that.
Or sometimes
They read the book, and then the child starts calling the dog, Carl.
People tell me that children rush up to them and talk and say, hi, Carl.
So they have a rat bottle, you know.
Do you, in your own mind, do you use the word read, the word read?
What do you look at?
You know, whatever you do with a book.
Just because it's a book, you read a book, you look at a book, yeah.
But really, it's a telling.
Well, it is.
It is narrative.
Well, of course.
I mean, it is narrative, whatever you want to tell.
It's cinematic if you want to narrate.
It doesn't gauge the reader.
No, no, it doesn't.
And that turns out to be... It doesn't engage the native.
It doesn't.
What does it mean?
You're saying it does or it doesn't?
The pictures?
Yeah, no, no, no.
It engages.
No, no, no.
I said other pictures.
It doesn't gauge the reader's age.
No, no, no.
It engages.
Well, yeah, apparently it does.
No, it doesn't engage the reader.
No, that's better.
It does, apparently.
It does engage.
Apparently it does.
I mean, people tell me that...
Sometimes children want it told exactly the same way every time.
Sometimes they want it told different every time when they make it up.
But the telling is still arbitrary.
Sure.
You're providing the signpost.
That's right.
Yeah.
And one thing teachers use it for.
I get a lot of letters from schools and pictures.
Teachers say, okay,
What else could Carl do?
And so I get a lot of letters from children of Carl going to the seashore, or Carl going to the White House, or Carl going to these other places.
My daughters are very impressed that I didn't have any history today.
I didn't really get their attention at this point.
I love it, you know.
I won't go into it, you know.
I get to meet with a lot of people, and Nicole, guess where I'm from then?
I mean, this is really very, very, very terrific.
I'd like to talk to your husband at some point, not necessarily today.
Well, you're going to have trouble tearing him away from that thing.
That's it.
Maybe I can crawl sometime in fact.
Sure.
Just for a little, I mean, this is not for this piece.
This is now going to be lots of found books, I would say.
Well, yeah, I mean, for all it's impressive, for all of Roger Strauss called me up and said, well, get the indoor track record, and we've never printed this many books in one season by an author.
I said, oh, come on, you know, all your novels and best-selling novels?
He said, no.
Mother's got to roll?
I said, oh, come on, Roger, this is what you use.
He said, no, no.
It's because, of course, there's several titles.
But over the three titles around the 21st million copies as well.
I hope it's done.
I'm saying that I'm sure that Carl's adventures will be continuing now for a special time to come.
Well, yeah.
There's one more under contract which I'm going to do, which I'm working on now.
It's going to be Carl's Masquerade.
to go to a Masquerade party, follow the parents.
How about coming up with the ideas?
Do you still go back to the sources, the original sources, for inspiration?
No.
Well, Masquerade is really, again, the Christmas, I think, was my idea.
As I say, I get lost.
I can't remember.
The shopping, I think, was my idea.
Christmas might have been my idea or not.
I can't remember.
But the new one is his idea.
and that party because he loves masquerade and costumes and he collects pictures and all kinds of things.
It's wonderful, the sources, you know, he can provide me for costumes.
I'm using, making great use of a wonderful old German catalogue of costumes that you could order for this masquerade party.
and I'm going to have a lantern seen outside.
He calls us pictures of lanterns.
So this masquerading was his idea.
Do you do this a lot?
Do you go to these shows?
Uh-huh, really.
Are you both looking?
No, we're both looking.
And what exactly are you looking for?
Well, it's hard to say.
Interesting images.
Images that we might use sometimes for something in some way.
We realized that the world of ephemera is a great, uh, source of, uh, fascinating images.
You know, the Blue Lantern has made, uh, and this is Carl's specialty, along with two reasons, he's a, was an author for the Green Party and a since the country.
They're, of course, friend of ours.
Uh, a number of books which are created out of the old books.
Athenaeum has a couple, one that's called the Glorious Mother Goose, and then they now have, there's what they call a Glorious ABC, and Bantam put out a couple.
They put out an Alice and something called the Three Fences, which is Snow White, Sydney, Beauty, and Cinderella.
But the story is told in all different illustrations.
I think there's 27 different editions of Alice that go into the
that throw into the thing.
The Chronicle has put out several.
They've got a Child's Garden of Verses that we did for them, which is, each poem is illustrated with a different, well, there's some of these, but with the great illustrators of Child's Garden.
And we've got a series of animal poems that are coming out done that way.
Are you...
If you were to describe the focus of your collection, would you say the ephemera, to use one word, are you ephemera collectors?
We're ephemera collectors, but no, but certainly the beginning and the main body of it is books.
The ephemera is, books are getting scarcer for one thing, we get so many.
And again, they're illustrated books.
All illustrated books, yeah, always illustrated.
Children's of all kinds of illustrated books.
All kinds of, certainly primarily children.
Certainly, yes, the focus is actually.
Are you familiar with the Ruth Baldwin collection of the University of Florida?
I've heard of it.
I've never seen it.
I was down there last year.
Really?
That's really where she's back.
Uh-huh, I'm sure it is.
She was a great character.
She wouldn't let the students in.
I mean, only since she's died have they... That's gone.
She literally sat at her door.
I've got a great story.
I don't have to have it.
Thank you.
You said that the books, and we can wrap this up if you'd like, and I can fly you sometime back out in California if you'd like.
Yeah, okay.
Well, I think that for these books, by the way, I might write this piece.
Does it suit your purposes better to have it published now or more towards the season?
Well, I think the books are in the stores now.
Okay.
So I think that for our position is any time now.
Just good.
Because I'm going to be doing a lot of round-ups, too.
I mean, this won't be part of the round-up, but it might be a nice piece to precede the stuff.
I mean, it'll be a separate... Yeah, any time.
I think any time now it's been being as fun.
Okay.
And the book collection is still a primary collection.
Yeah.
Yeah, it is.
As I say, because there is a finite number of books, and there is almost an infinite number of ephemera,
But we do more, I wouldn't say we do more ephemera collections because we still get books a lot.
But we have done more specific ephemera collections in the recent years than we did in the past.
We didn't get onto ephemera collections as early as books.
I mean, books is where we started.
We didn't get onto ephemera collections.
You sort of pick up a thing here or there, but we didn't really get on to it.
Do you collect a couple?
Are these individuals?
Do you kind of look for things that interest you?
Oh, sure.
We'll both.
We both collect for each other.
I told him, if you see anybody like it, ask me if they've got any old patterns.
I collect old patterns.
And what is Harold looking for, generally?
I mean, so you have an excuse.
You're looking for ideas for the books.
No, I'm not to do things for the books.
Well, I never do that, actually.
I never think of that.
So you don't justify this as that it's a functional... Well, I do, but I look for things mostly for blue lantern things, mostly what I'm looking for.
I see.
When I go to the gym, I'm thinking about...
I don't think of myself as an illustrator, primarily, but as a painter.
I mean, when I travel, I spend a lot of time in museums.
He does, too.
I spend a lot of time in museums, but I'm thinking about painting.
And the illustrations are... The illustration is different from evil painting.
Because there's got to be more narrative, especially if it's wordless, of course, that could be explanatory.
But I don't think it should be, at all possible, I don't think it should be any less good a painter without reading.